.\" Manpage for lidm
.\" https://github.com/javalsai/lidm
.TH lidm-config 5

.SH NAME
lidm-config \- Configuration file syntax for lidm


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB\fI/etc/lidm.ini\fP


.SH THEMES
There are themes you can take as reference or simply copy in \fBthemes/\fP, no need to tackle the config yourself. It's good to give this a read however.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fI/etc/lidm.ini\fP file specifies all the configuration for lidm, including theme colors. It's also possible to override this path with the \fILIDM_CONF\fP environment variable.

The configuration aims to mimic a toml syntax but it's not 100% compatible with it. It's grouped in tables and takes key/value pairs parsed in different modes depndending on the type. Comments and empty lines are allowed as well as surrounding whitespace at the edges of the line and the equals sign.

Values can be of these types:
.TP
\fBSTRING\fP
Needs to be quoted with double quotes, allows basic character escaping with a backslash as well as bytes of the form \fB\\xHH\fP, please don't put a nullbyte.
.TP
\fBBOOL\fP
Either \fBtrue\fP or \fBfalse\fP, no quoting.
.TP
\fBKEY\fP
Represents a keyboard key, must be unquoted, possible values are enumerated in \fBinclude/keys.h\fP.
.TP
\fBSTRING_ARRAY\fP
A list of strings, especified as a normal string, but reassigning to the same variable will append to that list.


.SH KEYS
In case anything here is outdated, all the config structure is defined in \fBinclude/config.h\fP, you can also find the default values there. This reference is separated by tables.

.SS colors
All these values are of type \fBSTRING\fP.
.TP
\fBbd, fg, err\fP
Background, foreground and error escape sequences. \fB'fg'\fP is also used as reset sequence, so it must remove effects used in other keys (such as bold, underline...) \fBWITHOUT\fP using the \fB'0'\fP sequence, as that would remove the background color.
.TP
\fBs_wayland, s_xorg, s_shell\fP
Coloring for sessions of such types (Wayland, X.org, Shells)
.TP
\fBe_hostname, e_date, e_box\fP
Coloring for the hostname, date and box elements.
.TP
\fB.e_header\fP
Coloring for heading elements (left column)
.TP
\fBe_user, e_passwd, e_badpasswd\fP
Coloring for the user element, password and bad padssword.
.TP
\fBe_key\fP
Coloring for key elements (eg: F1, F2, CTRL...)

.SS chars
Single characters used for some elements (could be longer than a character, but it will likely break UI code assumptions), these are also of type \fBSTRING\fP.
.TP
\fBhb, vb\fP
Character for the horizontal bar (hb) and vertical bar (vb).
.TP
\fBctl, ctr, cbl, cbr\fP
Characters for the corners of the box (ctl = corner top left, cbr = corner bottom right)

.SS functions
All these are of type \fBKEY\fP.
.TP
\fBpoweroff, reboot, fido, refresh\fP
Function key to use for such action.

.SS strings
Display strings to use for some elements.
.TP
\fBf_poweroff, f_reboot, f_fido, f_refresh\fP
Text displayed to name such functions at the bottom of the screen.
.TP
\fBe_user, e_passwd\fP
Text to display for these element headers.
.TP
\fBs_wayland, s_xorg, s_shell\fP
Text to display as the header for such sessions.
.TP
\fBopts_pre, opts_post\fP
To be used for items with multiple options on the left and right sides \fB"< "\fP and \fB" >"\fP.
.TP
\fBellipsis\fP
Ellipsis to be used in multiple parts such as overflowing hostnames.

.SS behavior
Other miscellaneous behavior strings, of mixed types
.TP
\fBinclude_defshell\fP
Type \fBBOOL\fP, specifies if the default user shel should be included as a session.
.TP
\fBsource, user_source\fP
Types \fBSTRING_ARRAY\fP. Specify paths to source on login if they exist, simple KEY=VALUE format with comments (#) or empty'ish lines, quoting or escape sequences not supported yet. \fBuser_source\fP paths are relative to user home.
.TP
\fBtimefmt\fP
Specify the time format string to be displayed. Check \fBstrftime (3)\fP to know the possible formatting variables.
.TP
\fBrefresh_rate\fP
Rate (in milliseconds) at which the UI should refresh, affects clock and resize behavior.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lidm (1)
.BR strftime (3)
